for the last 10 years I have
persistently put off the idea of using a
smartwatch no matter how many people
have recommended one I've always said
I'm not a smartwatch kind of guy I don't
want to be pinged a 100 times a day with
notifications I don't want yet another
thing that I have to remember to charge
I don't want to reply to messages using
a keyboard the size of my thumb but late
last year dri and I were trying to find
the perfect Christmas gift for our team
and we kept coming back to this idea of
Smartwatch getting each person the same
watch and then creating this fitness
challenge between us that will help us
all with our health goals eventually we
caved each of us got an Apple Watch
series 9 I've been wearing mine every
day for the last 2 months you'll have
seen it in all the videos so as someone
who's basically despised the idea of a
smartwatch from a distance has actually
using one in my life completely flipped
my perspective and I want to start with
the fitness thing because I did not
expect how much it would affect me so if
you don't know the way that Apple by
default measures your health is with
three rings one that tracks the calories
you've burnt from movement one that
tracks the number of minutes spent doing
a proper workout and then one that
tracks the number of hours in a day for
which you've been stood up for at least
a minute you set what you want your
goals for each of those three rings to
be and then every day you're basically
playing this game to complete them and I
use the word game very purposefully cuz
I'm a massive gamer at heart and the
crazy thing about this watch for me is
that it feels like it has turned my
entire life into a video game like you
know how in a game you have your health
bars and your stamina meters and all
your stats all of a sudden I have
sensors on my wrist that are measuring
my own key step stats a screen that's
communicating them to me and then
software that's adding that game likee
layer of making you want to complete
your objectives and level up and for me
this has been no
exaggeration life altering it's partly
that now anytime within a second you can
see exactly what you've been lacking
today it's partly that it rewards each
completed ring with a really cool
animation pretty equivalent to the
in-game thrill of beating a high score
or unlocking a new upgrade and then
partly also the ability to compete with
others so in the Apple fitness app you
can add in anyone who also has a watch
and when you do that you can see their
Rings they can see your rings Yeah Boy
most smart watches have a feature like
this and if you ever do end up getting
one I would strongly recommend you find
at least one person to set this up with
cuz knowing that anyone can check your
stats at any time during the day it just
adds an extra layer of accountability
and also this incentive to do more to go
even beyond your goals and blow them
away but what's even better than that
and something that the official Apple
app doesn't actually let you do is a
challenge there's a separate app you can
get called challenges and that lets you
add all of your friends together into
one big competition you have a running
leaderboard that's constantly updating
you have drama you have surprise
takeovers when one person suddenly goes
on an outdoor holiday and walks
everywhere and surprise downfalls when
someone picks up a sudden injury and
this for me has led to all sorts of
situations where I'm actively changing
my behavior for the better like choosing
to walk home after a big meal out or
discuss video ideas with brisha by
walking in the garden as opposed to sit
on the sofa and that is priceless one
thing I did find quite annoying at the
start was that the watch has a specific
workout mode and that's fine it's where
it turns on all sensors and tracks all
your stats super accurately and it's
being in this workout mode that's going
to fill your specific workout ring but
the annoying thing is it doesn't
activate automatically the watch is kind
of designed around you having to
remember to specifically enter workout
modes and pick what kind of workout
before you start working out as opposed
to the watch just knowing and I do feel
like there has to be a smoother way
although after a period of time using it
what I have realized is that a in most
cases when you've been exercising for 10
minutes or so your watch will ask you if
you'd like to turn on workout modes and
then also if you say yes to that it will
look back at when that workout mod
likely started and then add back in that
time you spent exercising and the likely
calories burned to your watch rings so
even though you don't get the best
quality tracking at the start of your
workout you don't feel like you've lost
progress or wasted time exercising so
the fitness side of things is
exceptional but not everything is I've
personally had a pretty major hit
recently which I will get to but even
just generally what really does feel
like a weak point of the Apple watch is
how it actually looks as a watch both in
terms of the inbuilt watch face
customization and also the hardware like
when you go in the watch app you can
pick from a whole number of different
watch face templates you can customize
the exact color you want everything to
be and then individually decide which
complications that you want to swap into
those templates it's definitely enough
such that my Apple watch does look very
different to the rest of our team's
Apple watches but you're also definitely
not given free roam like I was hoping
for you know given how much of the
appeal of watches in general is tied to
them being a fashion statement I'm just
surprised that Apple hasn't made some
sort of third-party watch face
Marketplace or like uh the ability to
granularly customize the way every part
animates for example but to be fair
other people have I've been using an app
called facer and while it does cost
money if you want all the watch faces it
does give you you a mindblowing amount
of watch faces like this one which
really emphasizes that whole video game
like feel I was telling you about and
this one which is well it's Pokmon on
your wrist doesn't get better than that
but then the other side to this coin is
the hardware and it's not by any means
ugly it's just it's just fine the body
looks fine the bands look fine nothing
is particularly special no one's going
to stop you mid conversation to ask what
that sexy thing on your wrist is and I
think other companies like Samsung and
Huawei have actually made something
that's just more aesthetically pleasing
also I do have one massive scratch on my
screen which is highly upsetting and yes
you can install watch screen protectors
but they kind of ruin the seamlessness
of the feel and watch cases aren't
really much of a thing because it then
becomes a much bulkier proposition so I
feel like it's one of those gadgets
where you just kind of have to accept
it's not going to stay pristine now that
said one thing I really rate about the
Apple watch is it's very clearly been
designed to be a daily watch one that
you're not saving for special occasions
or for dress up but that you take out
and you live with every single day and
it achieves that goal very well the
shape and the curves of the watch for
example means that no matter what
position my wrist is in it doesn't dig
in the bands while generally not the
prettiest are almost always so
comfortable that you basically forget
they're there and at least for this
fabric one that I've settled on is very
easy to slip on and slip off and a lot
softer than it looks and that
seamlessness also carries through to
using the watch I don't think I've seen
a single bug or even broken animation in
the last 2 months pretty much every app
opens instantly and feels really
consistent most apps have this kind of
low power stage and they gently wake up
when you lift your wrist to look at them
which makes it all feel like a really
cohesive optimized system and while the
squarer shape does lose some points in
the looking like a watch Department it
gains points in the being as functional
as possible Department there's more
usable space for your apps and the apps
really use that space you have the
distinct feeling with this Apple watch
that every bit of software you use on it
has been specifically made for that
exact set of Hardware you're using cuz
it basically has B and then the cherry
on top is that because the display
itself has such deep blacks and that the
whole user interface is designed around
being black it genuinely feels like the
screen is melting over the sides very
cool indeed but none of that stuff
really addresses my fundamental concerns
with a smartwatch you know stuff like
why bother having yet another Gadget
that you need to charge what's the point
having a mini second phone that
basically doubles you up on your
notifications and I want to be able to
escape from my screen sometimes Honestly
though if you spend a little bit of time
at at the start setting it up right most
of those concerns melt away like for the
charging situation we found this it's a
single block that charges your phone
your earphones and your watch which in
one F swoop means I put all of my stuff
onto charge together at night and I take
all that stuff off the next morning so
in my experience it cuts both the hassle
of having to charge multiple things and
also the risk of forgetting to pick your
watch up in the morning the concern
about notifications all the time by
default your watch will mirror the
notification settings that you have set
for your phone so if you've already set
your phone up to disable notifications
from say Amazon then your watch Will by
default do the same but then you can
also further configure it so that you're
only getting the specific notifications
on your watch that you want to get on
your watch and so for me notifications
have gone something that initially felt
like it was going to be a massive burden
to a perk cuz I've disabled
notifications like Amazon delivery
notifications on my watch cuz I'll just
see them when I see them on my phone but
for the important things this makes sure
that I see them the moment they come in
and while naturally you would assume
that a smartwatch is going to double the
amount of time you spend looking at your
screens because of this I've actually
found the opposite because you know that
your most important notifications are
going to come to your wrist it reduces
that growing anxiety you would normally
get from not having checked your phone
in a while so you do that less and when
you get notifications here and you look
at your watch and you action them which
you can fairly easily with a full-size
keyboard and more importantly some
really high quality voice to text that
even punctuates for you almost always
correctly there's nothing else to do
because there's no Tik Tok to go on or
feeds to scroll you basically just do
what you need to do on it and then you
put your arm down and carry on with the
rest of your day so as well as all the
benefits to the number of times I stand
the number of steps I take the workouts
I do this watch has also incredibly
reduced the amount of time I spend on my
tech now it isn't perfect cuz well two
things one that something I have noticed
myself doing when a notification comes
directly onto your wrist this immediate
instinctive need to glance over at it
even mid conversation when someone is
talking to you I hate that I do it I
know how rude it must look I'm trying to
get myself out of the habit but I feel
like this is just one of those
consequences of your Tech very much
being on your
body sorry what did you say the wedding
music oh and secondly while in one way
I'm very impressed at what the watch can
do there's also a lot of ways in which
I'm quite surprised at what it can't do
see modern day SmartWatches they are
their own computer they've got their own
chip they've got their own apps and so
from a distance you might look at this
Apple watch and think oh it's kind of
like an iPhone but on your wrist it's
not your Apple watch has a permanent
Bluetooth connection to your phone and
it kind of requires the phone for a lot
of its functionality so for example if
you want to send a text you have to make
sure that you're either within Bluetooth
range of your phone which is not very
far or you're within range of a Wi-Fi
network that your phone has previously
connected to oh and if you're enjoying
the worst lit Mr who the boss video ever
it's because we're in India we've got a
really cool collab coming up and if you
want to see it then a sub to the channel
would be
[Music]
strapping or for another limitation of
the watch while it is a great remote for
your songs and your YouTube videos you
can't actually watch those videos on it
when people send you WhatsApp messages
with images attached you just see the
images as blurs like why what am I meant
to do with this and yeah there are tons
of native apps here like headspace but
let's be very clear watch headspace is a
very neutered proposition compared to
phone headspace and I also noticed that
photos are quite Limited by default your
watch will only store whatever shots you
favorited on your phone and while you
can add more there's a Max limit of 500
which you know my phone has like 28,000
my point being this is not a phone
replacement it's not capable enough such
that even if I had a data connection
with a cellular watch I still would not
feel comfortable leaving home without my
phone but importantly none of the things
that I thought would annoy me have
actually been issues and the watch has
made my life so much more convenient in
many different unexpected ways like for
example you want to pay for something at
a store now instead of this it's just
this you need a sudden flashlight it's
here and you want to make it brighter
tap you want to keep track of your
navigation now you don't need to take
your phone out to your pocket five times
you need to quickly enter a two-factor
authentication code now you just check
your wrist because you can see all of
your messages there you want to skip the
song that's playing or adjust the volume
while you're running this is your remote
you want to set a quick timer or check
the weather this is now by far the
fastest way to do those little things
you know how when you have both a phone
and a laptop you try and do everything
that you can do on your phone just
because the fact that it fits in your
pocket and the fact that it has
touchscreen apps makes it a Slicker
experience than uous websites well in
the exact same way when you have a
smartwatch you will try and do
everything that you can do on this
instead of your phone there is also this
new double tap gesture in the latest
Apple watches which adds like a
universal button to do whatever the
primary action in the app that you're in
is but I haven't found it particularly
comfortable or reliable now there's one
more looming question before we bring
this all together you have got thousands
upon thousands of watch apps so what
other stuff does this do that's actually
useful well honestly so much stuff when
you put it all together that it's quite
daunting so much stuff that no one
person will ever use it all and you will
still be discovering new things even
years into using it everything from
mental health tracking to detailed sleep
tracking to keeping tabs of how many
sunlight hours you're getting each day
but there's three things that I found
particularly useful if you lose your
phone behind a sofa or should I say when
you lose your phone behind a sofa having
the find my app at your fingertips and
just being able to make it ring is a
lifesaver there's walkie-talkie which is
an absolutely amazing concept it's
basically anytime you want you hold down
the walkie-talkie button you speak and
the other person will hear what you're
saying in real time so long as they have
internet and it's one of the most
effortless forms of long-distance
communication I've ever experienced it's
kind of like the convenience of a voice
notes but without the pressure of a
phone call so it feels pretty perfect
for all of those super quick what are
you up up to right now kind of catch-ups
and also those could you bring some milk
when you come back home updates only
thing is you do feel the volume
limitations of the watch the speaker is
like 30% quieter than it needs to be for
this to be a full-on game changer and
then the compass which while not
something I use often has saved me a
couple of times and it's just done
really well it shows you your altitude
it shows your incline your latitude your
longitude the app is super responsive
and it even has this really cool feature
called backtrack where let's say you're
staying in a new location that you're
not familiar deal with and you want to
head out somewhere if you turn on
backtrack your watch will automatically
keep track of every step you take so
that when you're ready to come back it
guides the way so for the most part I
was wrong I've gone from completely
detesting the idea of a smartwatch to
now being completely sold on them and I
can also specifically recommend the
Apple Watch series 9 it's been very good
to me the only catch and in my case this
is a massive catch is that the Apple
watch is first and foremost an iPhone
accessory yes you can still your rings
with that one but you can't message you
can't take calls you can't look up
directions on the go it's not really a
functional product which given that I've
just recently switched over from my
iPhone to a Samsung phone puts me in
this slightly unfortunate situation
where I have to either decide to use the
phone that I want to use or to use the
watch that I want to use and this isn't
even just an apple problem most watches
made for Androids are practically
dysfunctional with iPhones so buying a
smartwatch in general is just one of the
strongest ecosystem lock-ins that you
can possibly commit yourself to for now
I've basically resorted to having to
carry around my old iPhone in my
backpack wherever I go just so I can
still use the watch features that I love
but it's not a great solution and also I
can't really switch to a Galaxy watch
because then this whole fitness
challenge that I've started with my team
I would have to leave it now while I
figure out that pickle how do you best
record all of this activity that your
watch makes you do this guy this is the
insta 360 Ace Pro and it's this insane
Fusion of high-end action camera and
artificial intelligence for's 8K video
recording this is the first action
camera to do it and it not just means
that you can take videos that you could
watch back on a 120in screen but also
that if you want to zoom while taking 4K
video you just double tap on screen and
you will still be shooting native 4K
video the sensor size too is Miles
bigger than the latest GoPro but
Hardware is one thing where this
absolutely minces the competition is
when you bring in the AI like pure video
mode which when you're shooting anything
low light can analyze that footage and
in the background improve noise raise
brightness increase dynamic range it
looks a lot better than you'd expect it
to and better than any action camera
output I've ever seen and then AI warp
is completely Next Level it turns your
scene into almost whatever you want it
to be there's tons more but I won't
spoil it I've got us a custom link in
the description that gets you 10% off
plus a free screen protector so if
you're interested that's where to go